this video was made possible by
curiosity stream watch unlimited
documentaries for free for a month by
signing up at the link in the
description welcome to the bottom of the
barrel today we're talking about
elevators this is the Shanghai Tower the
second tallest building in the world
behind the Burj Khalifa in Dubai now
building tall buildings is a bit of a
rooster measuring contest and no more
likes flaunting their flightless birds
more than China and the UAE the Shanghai
Tower which cost two point five billion
dollars to build switches to over 2,000
feet or 600 meters and has 127 stories
as a point of comparison if you put
eight 747s on top of each other the
Shanghai Tower would still be taller
mostly because according to an
engineering degree that's not a
structurally sound building now part of
the difficulty in having buildings this
tall is that people who mostly come for
the ground need to get to the top of the
building quickly if people can't get to
the top of the building easily and
quickly they won't want to buy property
in the building which I'm told is a
pretty important aspect to profitability
therefore for super tall buildings such
as this a ton of money and time is put
into designing as they pretentiously
call it their vertical transportation
system for the Shanghai Tower this was
so important that its designers hired a
company the edge at Williams Consulting
Group to design their system to be clear
these guys weren't designing the
elevators themselves they bought those
from other companies they were designing
the system of elevators now you might
think that you could just have a bunch
of very long elevators like any other
building but if you think that you'd be
wrong and you should feel bad here's why
let's say there's an 11-story building
where there's a lobby and then 10 floors
which each have one resident now 10
people need to travel from the lobby to
the first floor because everybody lives
above the lobby but then from the first
to second floor only nine people need to
travel because only nine people live
above the first floor only eight people
live above the second floor etc etc etc
and only one person lives above the
ninth the problem though is that with a
traditional elevator system you have to
build the elevator which goes up the
whole height of the building to have
exactly enough capacity to transport
exactly as many people travel between
the lobby and the first floor even
though when that elevator gets to the
top
it only needs enough capacity to handle
one person for shorter buildings it's
just simpler to have one elevator system
running to each floor well it's less
efficient from a space perspective it
saves a lot of time for taller buildings
though the problem is that a lot of
people fit in the building and therefore
you need a lot of capacity with each
additional floor in the building you
need more elevator capacity and
therefore more elevators which generally
need one shaft each and so by building
an additional floor you actually remove
over all usable floor space from the
building based off the space the
additional elevator shaft takes up on
all the floors based off this principle
there's a theoretical limit to how tall
traditionally shaped skyscrapers can be
since as certain Heights and capacities
the space needed for the elevators would
be greater than the horizontal space of
the tower itself as alpha as an all
elevator building sounds it's again not
good for profitability unless it was
like an amusement park for all those
elevator enthusiasts youtubers for all
these reasons most super tall buildings
use a different method of elevators
taking the elevator in these buildings
is almost like taking the subway which
is fair considering that the Burj
Khalifa is taller than the shortest
subway line in New York the 42nd Street
shuttle is long unlike the New York
subway though the elevators aren't ways
flavored how it works in the case of the
Shanghai Tower for example is that there
are five sky lobbies as they're called
spread out throughout the tower from the
ground lobby one set of elevators will
go directly to the first and one
directly to the second one to the third
to the fourth and fifth from there
people will transfer on to a local
elevator that can take them to the exact
floor they want between the two sky
lobbies that way there are only a few
elevators at the top where not many are
needed thereby saving space and you can
also have two elevators in one shaft
the Express one and the local one now
you might wonder why not just have sets
of elevators that travel direct from the
ground floor up to each sky lobby and
then switch to local after that well
it's because not all elevators are
created equal the Express elevators are
double-decker meaning in the same shaft
they have double the capacity and
they're super fast the local elevators
on the other hand are just fairly normal
now for the titular question like any
good super tall building the Shanghai
Tower has an observation deck so you can
pay to look down on the plants in fact
this is the highest observation deck in
the world but to get to it
you wouldn't want all the tourists to
have to deal with sky lobbies and local
elevators and all that confusion because
tourists are known for their limited
intellectual ability therefore there are
three elevators going directly from the
ground floor all the way to the 120
first floor a distance of 1898 feet or
579 meters that's record number one it's
the furthest traveling single elevator
in the world record number two is that
this is the fastest elevator in the
world it gets people from the ground to
the 120 first floor in only 55 seconds
that's a speed of 40 miles or 65 km/h on
the way down though the elevator only
goes a measly 22 miles or 36 km/h the
reason any faster and it would be
uncomfortable as people couldn't
equalize their ears fast enough of
course the reason these are so fast in
addition to just the prestige of having
the record is to save room you can
either have one elevator that makes the
trip in 55 seconds or two that make it
in 110 now that you've learned
absolutely everything there ever is to
know about the second tallest building
in the world you probably want to learn
more about the tallest building the Burj
Khalifa luckily you can do so for free
by watching this great documentary on
curiosity stream this documentary gives
a unique glimpse into the lives of those
that live and work in this vertical city
curiosity stream meanwhile is of course
that great website where you can watch
any of more than 2400 documentaries for
free on pretty much any device you want
better yet by going to curiosity stream
comm /h AI and using the code h AI you
can watch for free for a month